Added new page for Magento\Framework\Math\FloatComparator (#8883)
magento/devdocs: src/guides/v2.3/extension-dev-guide/framework/float-comparator.md

contributor_link: https://github.com/drpayyne
---

## Overview

The [`Magento\Framework\Math\FloatComparator`]({{ site.mage2bloburl }}/{{ page.guide_version }}/lib/internal/Magento/Framework/Math/FloatComparator.php){:target="\_blank"} library provides methods to compare float values with a proper epsilon value (`0.00001`).

## Usage

| Method               | Description                                                                                                                       |
| -------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `equal`              | Compares two given floats and returns a boolean value describing if they're equal.                                                |
| `greaterThan`        | Compares two given floats and returns a boolean value describing if the first float is greater than the second float.             |
| `greaterThanOrEqual` | Compares two given floats and returns a boolean value describing if the first float is greater than or equal to the second float. |

## Examples

### Check if two floats are equal

```php

>     $isEqual = $this->floatComparator->equal(1.002, 1.002);

Reviewer: Hi, @drpayyne !

What is `$this->floatComparator` ?

Thank you!

Author: Fixed, thanks!

## Usage

| Method               | Description                                                                                                                       |
| -------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `equal`              | Compares two given floats and returns a boolean value describing if they're equal.                                                |
| `greaterThan`        | Compares two given floats and returns a boolean value describing if the first float is greater than the second float.             |
| `greaterThanOrEqual` | Compares two given floats and returns a boolean value describing if the first float is greater than or equal to the second float. |

## Examples

> For the below examples, let's assume that the `$this->floatComparator` property is an instatiated object of the `FloatComparator` class.

Reviewer: Hi, @drpayyne !

What do you think about this option of your explanation:

```
In the examples below `$this->floatComparator` is an instatiated object of the [`Magento\Framework\Math\FloatComparator`]({{ site.mage2bloburl }}/{{ page.guide_version }}/lib/internal/Magento/Framework/Math/FloatComparator.php){:target="\_blank"} class.
```

Author: Hi thanks for your suggestion. I decided not to link it again since it's already at the top of the page. Didn't feel right to link every occurrence of that class in that page. What do you think?

Reviewer: Makes sense :)

What do you think about:

```
In the examples below `$this->floatComparator` is an instatiated object of the `Magento\Framework\Math\FloatComparator` class.
```

Thanks

Author: Done, thanks!

> In the examples below, let's assume that the `$this->floatComparator` property is an instatiated object of the `Magento\Framework\Math\FloatComparator` class.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the examples below, the `$this->floatComparator` property is an instantiated object of the `Magento\Framework\Math\FloatComparator` class.
```

---
group: php-developer-guide
title: Float Comparator
contributor_name: Adarsh Manickam
contributor_link: https://github.com/drpayyne
---

## Overview

> The [`Magento\Framework\Math\FloatComparator`]({{ site.mage2bloburl }}/{{ page.guide_version }}/lib/internal/Magento/Framework/Math/FloatComparator.php){:target="\_blank"} library provides methods to compare float values with a proper epsilon value (`0.00001`).

Reviewer 3: I think it might be a good idea to explain what Epsilon is and why this method of comparison is more desirable than just saying IS a > b?

Perhaps a link to a page like : https://floating-point-gui.de/errors/comparison/ ?

Everything else is good on this PR

Author: Sure, @BarnyShergold! I shall work on that.

## Usage

| Method               | Description                                                                                                                       |
| -------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `equal`              | Compares two given floats and returns a boolean value describing if they're equal.                                                |
| `greaterThan`        | Compares two given floats and returns a boolean value describing if the first float is greater than the second float.             |
| `greaterThanOrEqual` | Compares two given floats and returns a boolean value describing if the first float is greater than or equal to the second float. |

## Examples

### Check if two floats are equal

```php

>     ...

Reviewer 2: That's a lotta whitespace for a single line of code. Let's remove the ...s and the blank lines around the code.

Author: Fixed, thanks!
